Q# manual (merger of Q# P. Language and Q. Dev. Techniques) (Branch, not fork) (#486)
MicrosoftDocs/quantum-docs-pr: articles/manual/index.md

---
title: Q# Manual | Microsoft Docs 
description: Q# Manual
author: E. Gonzalez
ms.author: v-edsanc@microsoft.com 
ms.date: 07/31/2019
ms.topic: article
uid: microsoft.quantum.manual.intro
---

# Q# Manual

## What is Q#?

Q# (Q-sharp) is a domain-specific programming language used for
expressing quantum algorithms.
It is to be used for writing subroutines that execute on an adjunct
quantum processor, under the control of a classical host program and computer.
Until quantum processors are widely available, Q# subroutines execute on a simulator.

A natural model for quantum computation is to treat the quantum computer
as a coprocessor, similar to that used for GPUs, FPGAs, and other adjunct
processors.
The primary control logic runs classical code on a classical "host" computer.
When appropriate and necessary, the host program can invoke a subroutine
that runs on the adjunct processor.
When the subroutine completes, the host program gets access to the
subroutine's results.

> Q# provides a small set of primitive types, along with two ways

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Q# provides a small set of built-in types, along with two ways
```
There's also UDTs in addition to arrays and tuples.

(arrays and tuples) for creating new, structured types.

> It supports a basic procedural model for writing programs,

Reviewer: I think this sentence made a bit more sense in the original version than it does here; we might not want to open by implying that Q# only supports a basic model, as that works against teaching the reader about the high-level functionality offered by Q#.

Author: I don't fully get the idea you have in mind here. Check 0d24276bcc258abdaa682dd973a725279954fb4b to see if now it's better.

with loops and if/then statements.
The top-level constructs in Q# are user defined types, operations,
and functions.

Q# is scalable: it can be used to write simple demonstration programs like teleport that run on a few qubits, but also supports writing large, sophisticated programs such as simulations of complex molecules that will require large machines with millions of qubits. Even though large physical machines are still in the future, Q# allows a programmer to program complex quantum algorithms now. What is more, Q# supports various tasks such as debugging, profiling, resource estimation, and certain special-purpose simulations in a scalable way.

## Why Q#?

> [![Quantum computing video](http://img.youtube.com/vi/cOUrzxyng04/0.jpg)](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cOUrzxyng04 "")

Reviewer: This video isn't showing up as a video for some reason, such that it isn't obvious that I should be able to click through and watch it. It may also be good to check if there's a more up-to-date video that we can use; @bromeg may have some resources to suggest there.

Author: I solved the issue in cd720b60367aedac7bba5f431034ff0881c41c2e , now it shows up correctly. 
And yes, I agree, the video is not completely appropriate, it's quite general about Quantum Computing and barely mentions anything related specifically with Q#, but I couldn't find anything better.

 While quantum hardware is still in early development, we need to build software for quantum computers to take advantage
 of the quantum power of computation when the time comes. Q# is a tool made to provide a platform where developers can write and test programs to be run on a future generation of quantum computers.

For more information about the foundations and motivation of Q# check out [Why do we need Q#?](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/qsharp/why-do-we-need-q/).

## How to learn Q#?

### Pre-required knowledge to use Q#

> There is no need to be an expert on quantum physics to start writing your first quantum programs. However, there are some concepts that are essential to understand quantum computing:

Reviewer: I think this could read in a way that scares off new readers; there's plenty of room to learn by doing, especially with the katas, books, courses, and so forth that are now available. Especially since you do a great job of listing those below, it might be good to invite the reader to keep reading even if they don't yet have all the background they will eventually need.

Author: Mmm, yes, you're right, it can scare the reader (and maybe "Pre-required knowledge" is a bit rough). However, I think there should be somewhere a small list of essential concepts that one should know. For example, Quantum Katas are great but they start assuming the reader is familiar with concepts such as complex numbers, quantum states, qubits, superposition... which a lot of readers might not be familiar with. Stepping into tutorials that explain things in terms of concepts the reader potentially doesn't know could also scare some users. Books don't suffer from this problem, but most of the first contacts with Q# will likely happen through the most accessible tutorials available.

Although I'm not the best person to judge this because I was already familiar with these concepts when I started to go through the katas. Maybe we should consult someone who started the tutorials with a non-physics background to ask what is the optimal way of present it.

understand the basics of quantum computation.
* **Linear algebra (vectors and matrices):** quantum states are vectors 
  in a vector space over the complex numbers. Quantum computing makes 
  intense use of linear operators acting on these states. Therefore 
  some level of expertise in linear algebra is indispensable to use Q#.
* **Dirac notation:** most quantum computing texts use Dirac notation 
  to express the mathematical concepts. Dirac notation is just a simple 
  notation for linear algebra widely used in quantum physics.
* **Basic concepts of quantum mechanics:** while it is not required to
  have a deep understanding of quantum mechanics to use Q#, it is highly
  recommended to be familiar with some basic concepts, namely
  *quantum state*, *qubit*, *observable*, *measurement*, *Hamiltonian*,
  *superposition*, *entanglement*, *interference*, among others.  

### Learning materials

Quantum computing is an emerging field and fortunately, there is an immense amount of learning resources online. Sometimes so many options can get overwhelming, so here we gather a few of them.

> #### Quantum computing concepts

Reviewer: I think this could be combined with the section starting at line 84, as learning Q# often includes learning about quantum computing more generally as well.

Author: Ok, I like the idea of not splitting learning Q# and learning Quantum Computing. Although I think this whole subsection should be restructured to a bigger section (see #487)
